README.md, before:

# PTX-Math

PTXM provides bit-accurate implementations of the elementary function approximation instructions available in Nvidia's PTX ISA.

There are presently implementations for:

- `rcp.approx.f32`
- `sqrt.approx.f32`
- `rsqrt.approx.f32`
- `sin.approx.f32`
- `cos.approx.f32`
- `lg2.approx.f32`
- `ex2.approx.f32`

See the section below for architecture compatibility.

## Building

The minimum CMake version for building with Unix makefiles is 3.10. The Visual Studio generators require at least 3.11.

To build with a local installation:

    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../install ..
    cmake --build . --config Release --target install

Available options:

- `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON` to build as a shared library
- `-DPTXM_USE_PIC=ON` to generate position-independent code (automatic for shared libraries)
- `-DPTXM_ENABLE_CUDA=OFF` to disable targets requiring CUDA (namely `ptxmvalidate`)

Building requires compilers for C11 and C++11. Components requiring CUDA are optional and can be disabled with the provided CMake option. The PTXM library requires support for the BMI2 extension.

## Compatibility

Provided are results of exhaustive tests with GPUs of various compute capability. The table indicates, for each function and architecture, whether the function produced output identical to that of the corresponding PTX instruction executed on a test GPU from the given architecture. Output is compared across all single-precision inputs.

|                   | sm_5x | sm_6x | sm_70 | sm_75 |
| :---              | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| `ptxm_rcp_sm5x`   |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |
| `ptxm_sqrt_sm5x`  |  Yes  |   -   |   -   |   -   |
| `ptxm_sqrt_sm6x`  |   -   |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |
| `ptxm_rsqrt_sm5x` |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |
| `ptxm_sin_sm5x`   |  Yes  |  Yes  |   -   |   -   |
| `ptxm_cos_sm5x`   |  Yes  |  Yes  |   -   |   -   |
| `ptxm_lg2_sm5x`   |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |
| `ptxm_ex2_sm5x`   |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |  Yes  |

These tests indicate expected compatibility. The `ptxmvalidate` utility can be used to verify correctness for a particular device.

Commit message:

Expand validation and background information

README.md, after:

# PTX-Math

PTXM provides bit-accurate implementations of the elementary function approximation instructions available in Nvidia's PTX ISA.

There are presently implementations for:

- `rcp.approx.f32`
- `sqrt.approx.f32`
- `rsqrt.approx.f32`
- `sin.approx.f32`
- `cos.approx.f32`
- `lg2.approx.f32`
- `ex2.approx.f32`

See the validation section for information on device compatibility.

## Building

The minimum CMake version for building with Unix makefiles is 3.10. The Visual Studio generators require at least 3.11.

To build with a local installation:

    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../install ..
    cmake --build . --config Release --target install

Available options:

- `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON` to build as a shared library
- `-DPTXM_USE_PIC=ON` to generate position-independent code (automatic for shared libraries)
- `-DPTXM_ENABLE_CUDA=OFF` to disable targets requiring CUDA (namely `ptxmvalidate`)

Building requires compilers for C11 and C++11. Components requiring CUDA are optional and can be disabled with the provided CMake option. The PTXM library requires support for the BMI2 extension.

## Caveats

PTX assembly targets a virtual GPU architecture, and some PTX instructions may be compiled to multiple native device instructions. Consistency of PTX semantics is therefore dependent on consistent JIT compilation of PTX assembly to native (SASS) assembly by the GPU driver. Furthermore, SASS is architecture-dependent, and thus semantics are not necessarily preserved across architectures. The `ptxmvalidate` utility can be used to verify correctness of the PTXM implementations for a particular target device.

## Validation

The `ptxmvalidate` utility performs exhaustive simulation of the selected function across all single-precision inputs. Function output is compared to that of the corresponding PTX instruction executed on the selected GPU device.

When building, you may wish to specify a real target architecture (e.g., `sm_50`) rather than a virtual target architecture (e.g., `compute_50`) so that SASS is generated directly by `nvcc`. This bypasses the JIT compilation and allows for inspection of the resulting device code.

### Results

Provided are results of validation tests with GPUs of various compute capability. These tests indicate expected architecture compatibility.

|                   | `sm_5x` | `sm_6x` | `sm_70` | `sm_75` |
| :---              |  :---:  |  :---:  |  :---:  |  :---:  |
| `ptxm_rcp_sm5x`   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |
| `ptxm_sqrt_sm5x`  |   Yes   |    -    |    -    |    -    |
| `ptxm_sqrt_sm6x`  |    -    |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |
| `ptxm_rsqrt_sm5x` |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |
| `ptxm_sin_sm5x`   |   Yes   |   Yes   |    -    |    -    |
| `ptxm_cos_sm5x`   |   Yes   |   Yes   |    -    |    -    |
| `ptxm_lg2_sm5x`   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |
| `ptxm_ex2_sm5x`   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |   Yes   |

## License

Licensed under the MIT License.
